a hooping crown chick learns to feel
encouraged by the gestures and cause of
its human foster parents in 1945 only 16
whooping cranes existed today there are
300 thanks to captive breeding and the
patient reeling of chicks by hand is
surely one of the most extraordinary
hand-rearing devices yet invented
whooping crane adult hand glove puppet
with the trigger inside so that I can
operate the big I'm speaking quietly
because behind each one of these doors
there is hoping crane chick and it's
very important that they don't get used
to the sound of human voices at this
early stage of their lives it's even
more important of course that they don't
see human beings which is why they are
fed with his flat puppet
here at the International crane
foundation in Wisconsin they believe
that were the chicks to be fed by humans
directly and visibly they would risk
becoming human eyes so that when they
became adult they wouldn't be able to
breed with their own kind as they grow
the Hooper's lose all their brown
plumage and replace it with white
feathers they must now learn how to use
them in fight and once again they have
to be shown the sort of thing and still
the way to the West in Idaho a farmer
with a passion for cranes Kent Clegg has
also been rearing a small group of
hooper chicks he has a mechanized way of
persuading his little flock to fly
he's reared them in a quite different
way initially in small groups which he
believes will avoid humanizing problems
he then taught them to follow him now
he's put them together with the young of
a common a smaller species sandhill
cranes they are the all brown ones
[Music]
so the little mixed flock has become
confident in the air
[Music]
[Applause]
there's one further problem whooping
cranes are migratory in the past sammy
used to overwinter in the united states
but many in the autumn would fly south
to New Mexico if these birds were to
remain free they might try to do the
same thing but how would they know which
way to go without their parents to guide
them and how would they find somewhere
safe to feed when they got there well
that problem is been tackled too
[Music]
Kent Clegg is planning to lead them
there himself in his minor right
[Music]
[Applause]
you